.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH SJPEG 1 "Dec 2, 2017"
.SH NAME
sjpeg \- compress a PNG, JPEG or PPM image file to a baseline JPEG file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sjpeg
.RI [ options ] " input_file \-o output_file.jpg
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the
.B sjpeg
command.
.PP
\fBsjpeg\fP compresses a PNG, JPEG or PPM image or recompresses a JPEG image,
using the baseline JPEG format.
.SH OPTIONS
The basic options are:
.TP
.BI \-o " string
Specify the name of the output JPEG file.
.TP
.B \-h, \-help
A summary of all the possible options.
.TP
.B \-version
Print the version number (as major.minor.revision) and exit.
.TP
.BI \-q " int
Specify the compression factor between 0 and 100. The default
is 75.
A small factor produces a smaller file
with lower quality. Best quality is achieved by using a value of 100.
If the input source is a JPEG file, the compression factor will be limited
to never exceed the source's quality unless the -no_limit option is used.
This option is disabled by subsequent use (in parsing order) of the \-r
option.
.TP
.BI \-r " int
Specify the reduction factor for JPEG source. The default is 100 (no reduction).
A small reduction factor produces a smaller file with lower quality.
When using a value of 100, the source JPEG file is only recompressed with
closed to no quality loss (but file size will likely be smaller).
This option is disabled by subsequent use (in parsing order) of the \-q
option.
.TP
.B \-yuv_mode " int
Specify the YUV color space method to use. Possible values are
.IP
0: automatic decision (default)
.IP
1: use YUV 4:2:0 downsampling
.IP
2: use 'Sharp' YUV 4:2:0 downsampling - slower but more accurate
.IP
3: use YUV 4:4:4 (full resolution for U/V chroma planes)
.TP
.B \-estimate
If the source is a JPEG file, print the estimated quality and exit.
.TP
.B \-i, \-info
Print some information about the input file and exit.
.TP
.B \-quiet
Disable information message (error messages are still printed).
.TP
.B \-short
Only display short information about the output result.
.TP
.B \-no_limit
Disable the quantization limit (in case of JPEG input file) allowing to
recompress the source at a higher quality factor (result is uncertain,
though!).
.TP
.B \-no_adapt
Disable adaptive quantization optimization (faster processing, larger file)
.TP
.B \-trellis
Enable trellis-based quantization (slower processing, but produces file
optimized for rate-distortion)
.TP
.B \-no_optim
Disable Huffman code optimization (faster processing, larger file)
.TP
.B \-adapt_bias
Disable the adaptive bias optimization.
.TP
.B \-no_metadata
Disable transfer of metadata from source to JPEG (saves file size, but discards
information).

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to the SJPEG discussion list:
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sjpeg
The issue tracker is located at:
https://github.com/webmproject/sjpeg/issues
.br
Patches welcome! See this page to get started:
http://www.webmproject.org/code/contribute/submitting-patches/

.SH EXAMPLES
sjpeg \-q 50 picture.png \-o picture.jpg
.br
sjpeg picture.jpg \-r 90 \-o optimized_jpeg.jpg

.SH AUTHORS
\fBsjpeg\fP was written by Pascal Massimino.
.br
The latest source tree is available at http://www.webmproject.org/code
.PP
This manual page was written by Pascal Massimino <pascal.massimino@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cjpeg (1), djpeg(1)
.br
.SS Input file format details
PPM: http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppm.html
